.TH DING 1 "2026" "ding" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ding \- run a command and get a Telegram notification when it finishes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ding
[\fB\-c\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR]
[\fB\-h\fR]
.I command
[\fIargs\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ding
wraps any shell command, runs it in a PTY (pseudo-terminal), and sends
a Telegram notification when the command finishes.
The notification includes the command name, exit status, duration, and
finish time.
.PP
If configured, ding can also send periodic "still running" pings while
the command is in progress.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config
Open the interactive TUI setup to configure the Telegram bot token,
chat ID, notification interval, and summary display.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print the version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage information and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is stored at
.I ~/.config/ding/config.json
and contains the following fields:
.TP
.B bot_token
Telegram bot token obtained from @BotFather.
.TP
.B chat_id
Telegram chat ID to send notifications to.
.TP
.B notify_interval
Interval in minutes for periodic "still running" notifications.
Set to 0 to disable (default).
.TP
.B show_summary
If true, print a summary table to the terminal when the command finishes.
.PP
Run
.B ding \-\-config
to configure interactively.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Run a build and get notified when done:
.B ding make build
.TP
Run tests:
.B ding npm run test
.TP
Run a deploy script:
.B ding ./deploy.sh
.TP
Open the configuration UI:
.B ding \-\-config
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/ding/config.json
User configuration file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR curl (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/felixschmelzer/ding/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Felix Schmelzer <https://github.com/felixschmelzer>
